We're almost done with this module,
you learned a lot about CSS animations. Now when using animations, there actually is a cool extra
feature you can use in Javascript,
you can listen to certain events connected to your animations,
let's connect an event to our call to action button.
We do that by going into our Javascript code
and let's first of all get access to that button,
so CTA button maybe, we can get access by using the document query selector again
and keep in mind, our button has a class of main nav item CTA,
so let's use that class as a selector,
we only got one button, so we'll only select this element here.
Now we can add an event listener, as we already did it for a click event for example.
So at the end of this Javascript file, the position doesn't matter though,
I'll add an event listener again and now the event I can listen to of course is a click
but regarding animations, we get three interesting animations,
the first one is animation start.
We can then execute a function
and here I simply want to console log animation started it and actually, we receive an argument in this
function, an event object with additional information about that event,
so let's also print this, console log is a helpful function which allows us to output something in the
developer console.
Let's register two other event listeners;
the first other is animation end and the third one is animation iteration.
I'll adjust my log messages to animation ended and animation iteration.
With that let's save all of that, let's go back to our page and open that Javascript console in the developer
tools and let's reload the page
and now you can see,
we get a couple of logs here on the right.
We got animation started,
then we got a log for each iteration and we got animation ended
and if you inspect the animation event, you'll find the animation name which was played,
so your keyframe set essentially and a couple of helpful properties, like
which element was animated and a timestamp. For each iteration,
you'll find that same information but also useful things, like the elapsed time.
Now as you see, the elapsed time of course increases by the same amount for each iteration step.
This can be super useful if you want to time something in your Javascript code,
for example if you want to start something once the animation ended because you got this hook here too
of course. After the full time of the animation,
this is what gets fired.
By the way, if you're wondering why this is 3.2s, if we specified 400ms, we
repeat it eight times,
so this is how we end up with the 3.2s
at the end.
So the Javascript event listeners can be really useful and I definitely wanted to add them to dismantle
here, even though it's a CSS course.